README.rst, before:

=============================================
OpenStack Configuration
=============================================

This project contains Ansible playbooks and configuration of infrastructure on
an existing OpenStack cloud for the OpenStack system. 

Preparation
===========

Ensure that Ansible is installed, either via the system package manager or pip.
It is recommended that you use a python virtual environment to avoid
interference with the system python packages. For example:

.. code-block::

   $ python3 -m venv openstack-venv
   $ source openstack-venv/bin/activate
   $ python -m pip install --upgrade pip
   $ pip install -r requirements.txt

Install Ansible role and collection dependencies from Ansible Galaxy:

.. code-block::

   $ ansible-galaxy collection install \
       -p ansible/collections \
       -r requirements.yml

Configuration
=============

Configuration should be added to ``etc/openstack-config/openstack-config.yml``.
Examples are provided in the ``examples`` directory.

Usage
=====

First, ensure that OpenStack authentication environment variables are set,
typically by sourcing an OpenStack environment file. If a Kayobe environment
was already configured, you can use the following command:

.. code-block::

   $ source ${KOLLA_CONFIG_PATH}/public-openrc.sh

If any Ansible variable is encrypted with Ansible Vault, make sure the
``ANSIBLE_VAULT_PASSWORD_FILE`` environment variable is set:

.. code-block::

   $ export ANSIBLE_VAULT_PASSWORD_FILE=<path-to-vault-password-file>

To configure OpenStack infrastructure:

.. code-block::

   $ tools/openstack-config

To run a specific playbook:

.. code-block::

   $ tools/openstack-config -p </path/to/playbook>

To specify additional arguments to ``ansible-playbook``, separate them with a
double hyphen (``--``):

.. code-block::

   $ tools/openstack-config -- <arguments>

For example, a vault secret stored as a file can be passed as an extra
configuration parameter:

.. code-block::

   $ tools/openstack-config -- --vault-password-file config-secret.vault


Magnum Cluster Templates
========================

To generate a new set of Magnum cluster templates and corresponding Glance image
definitions which utilise the latest stable upstream release tag, set the following
variables in `etc/openstack-config.yml`

.. code-block:: yaml

   # Chosen flavor on target cloud
   magnum_default_master_flavor_name:
   # Chosen flavor on target cloud
   magnum_default_worker_flavor_name:
   # External network to use for load balancers etc.
   magnum_external_net_name:
   # Octavia provider (e.g. 'ovn')
   magnum_loadbalancer_provider:
   # Optional list of extra labels to add to all generated cluster templates
   magnum_template_extra_labels:

then run the provided playbook with

.. code-block:: bash

   $ tools/openstack-config -p ansible/generate-magnum-capi-templates.yml

This will create a ``generated-magnum-snippets`` directory in the repo root with
a timestamped sub-directory containing an ``images.yml`` file and a ``templates.yml``
file. The contents of these two files can then be added to any existing images and
cluster templates in ``etc/openstack-config.yml``. When deploying the updated config,
be sure to run the ``openstack-images.yml`` playbook *before* running the
``openstack-container-clusters.yml`` playbook, otherwise the Magnum API will return
an error referencing an invalid cluster type with image ``None``. This is handled
automatically if running the full ``openstack.yml`` playbook.

Note that these templates are a tested set against the specific CAPI management
cluster release. As such, you should make sure to update your CAPI management
cluster to the latest release before updating to the latest templates.

Commit message:

Magnum: default to OVN load balanacer provider

README.rst, after:

=============================================
OpenStack Configuration
=============================================

This project contains Ansible playbooks and configuration of infrastructure on
an existing OpenStack cloud for the OpenStack system. 

Preparation
===========

Ensure that Ansible is installed, either via the system package manager or pip.
It is recommended that you use a python virtual environment to avoid
interference with the system python packages. For example:

.. code-block::

   $ python3 -m venv openstack-venv
   $ source openstack-venv/bin/activate
   $ python -m pip install --upgrade pip
   $ pip install -r requirements.txt

Install Ansible role and collection dependencies from Ansible Galaxy:

.. code-block::

   $ ansible-galaxy collection install \
       -p ansible/collections \
       -r requirements.yml

Configuration
=============

Configuration should be added to ``etc/openstack-config/openstack-config.yml``.
Examples are provided in the ``examples`` directory.

Usage
=====

First, ensure that OpenStack authentication environment variables are set,
typically by sourcing an OpenStack environment file. If a Kayobe environment
was already configured, you can use the following command:

.. code-block::

   $ source ${KOLLA_CONFIG_PATH}/public-openrc.sh

If any Ansible variable is encrypted with Ansible Vault, make sure the
``ANSIBLE_VAULT_PASSWORD_FILE`` environment variable is set:

.. code-block::

   $ export ANSIBLE_VAULT_PASSWORD_FILE=<path-to-vault-password-file>

To configure OpenStack infrastructure:

.. code-block::

   $ tools/openstack-config

To run a specific playbook:

.. code-block::

   $ tools/openstack-config -p </path/to/playbook>

To specify additional arguments to ``ansible-playbook``, separate them with a
double hyphen (``--``):

.. code-block::

   $ tools/openstack-config -- <arguments>

For example, a vault secret stored as a file can be passed as an extra
configuration parameter:

.. code-block::

   $ tools/openstack-config -- --vault-password-file config-secret.vault


Magnum Cluster Templates
========================

To generate a new set of Magnum cluster templates and corresponding Glance image
definitions which utilise the latest stable upstream release tag, set the following
variables in `etc/openstack-config.yml`

.. code-block:: yaml

   # Chosen flavor on target cloud
   magnum_default_master_flavor_name:
   # Chosen flavor on target cloud
   magnum_default_worker_flavor_name:
   # External network to use for load balancers etc.
   magnum_external_net_name:
   # Optional list of extra labels to add to all generated cluster templates
   magnum_template_extra_labels:

The load balancer provider defaults to OVN. This can be changed to Amphora, but you
should only do this if OVN load balancers are unavailable.

.. code-block:: yaml

   magnum_loadbalancer_provider: amphora

Then run the provided playbook with

.. code-block:: bash

   $ tools/openstack-config -p ansible/generate-magnum-capi-templates.yml

This will create a ``generated-magnum-snippets`` directory in the repo root with
a timestamped sub-directory containing an ``images.yml`` file and a ``templates.yml``
file. The contents of these two files can then be added to any existing images and
cluster templates in ``etc/openstack-config.yml``. When deploying the updated config,
be sure to run the ``openstack-images.yml`` playbook *before* running the
``openstack-container-clusters.yml`` playbook, otherwise the Magnum API will return
an error referencing an invalid cluster type with image ``None``. This is handled
automatically if running the full ``openstack.yml`` playbook.

Note that these templates are a tested set against the specific CAPI management
cluster release. As such, you should make sure to update your CAPI management
cluster to the latest release before updating to the latest templates.
